README.md, before:

Mote
====

Minimum Operational Template.

Description
-----------

Mote is a very simple and fast template engine.

Usage
-----

Usage is very similar to that of ERB:

```ruby
template = Mote.parse("This is a template")
template.call #=> "This is a template"
```

Silly example, you may say, and I would agree. What follows is a short list of
the different use cases you may face:

```
% if user == "Bruno"
  {{user}} rhymes with Piano
% elsif user == "Brutus"
  {{user}} rhymes with Opus
% end
```

## Control flow

Lines that start with `%` are evaluated as Ruby code.

## Assignment

Whatever it is between `{{` and `}}` gets printed in the template.

## Comments

There's nothing special about comments, it's just a `#` inside your Ruby code:

```
% # This is a comment.
```


## Block evaluation

As with control instructions, it happens naturally:

```
% 3.times do |i|
  {{i}}
% end
```

## Parameters

The values passed to the template are available as local variables:

```ruby
example = Mote.parse("Hello {{name}}")
assert_equal "Hello world", example.call(name: "world")
assert_equal "Hello Bruno", example.call(name: "Bruno")
```

# Helpers

There's a helper available in the `Mote::Helpers` module, and you are
free to include it in your code. To do it, just type:

```ruby
include Mote::Helpers
```

## mote

The `mote` helper receives a file name and a hash and returns the rendered
version of its content. The compiled template is cached for subsequent calls.

```ruby
assert_equal "***\n", mote("test/basic.mote", n: 3)
```

## Installation

As usual, you can install it using rubygems.

```
$ gem install mote
```

Commit message:

Document that only symbol keys are allowed.

README.md, after:

Mote
====

Minimum Operational Template.

Description
-----------

Mote is a very simple and fast template engine.

Usage
-----

Usage is very similar to that of ERB:

```ruby
template = Mote.parse("This is a template")
template.call #=> "This is a template"
```

Silly example, you may say, and I would agree. What follows is a short list of
the different use cases you may face:

```
% if user == "Bruno"
  {{user}} rhymes with Piano
% elsif user == "Brutus"
  {{user}} rhymes with Opus
% end
```

## Control flow

Lines that start with `%` are evaluated as Ruby code.

## Assignment

Whatever it is between `{{` and `}}` gets printed in the template.

## Comments

There's nothing special about comments, it's just a `#` inside your Ruby code:

```
% # This is a comment.
```


## Block evaluation

As with control instructions, it happens naturally:

```
% 3.times do |i|
  {{i}}
% end
```

## Parameters

The values passed to the template are available as local variables:

```ruby
example = Mote.parse("Hello {{name}}")
assert_equal "Hello world", example.call(name: "world")
assert_equal "Hello Bruno", example.call(name: "Bruno")
```

Please note that the keys in the parameters hash must be symbols.

# Helpers

There's a helper available in the `Mote::Helpers` module, and you are
free to include it in your code. To do it, just type:

```ruby
include Mote::Helpers
```

## mote

The `mote` helper receives a file name and a hash and returns the rendered
version of its content. The compiled template is cached for subsequent calls.

```ruby
assert_equal "***\n", mote("test/basic.mote", n: 3)
```

## Installation

As usual, you can install it using rubygems.

```
$ gem install mote
```
